# Sci2000 - Project 2- Image Recognition
## Andrea Abellera and Andrew Marinic

# Objective
	The objective of our project it to produce rudimentary image recongition software. The process will be trialed by trying to determin if an image contains a ball (an extremely uniform sphrical object) as opposed to another object that may appear round but does not have the same edges as a ball. An image library will be custom produced for each image as it is assumed that if a ball is contained within an image it may not be centre, it may not be the entire size of the image, and it may not be the only object in the image. We will incorpirate several methods to deal with these issues, like comparing submatrixes of the images to "scan" for a ball. Finally the procedure will try to be expanded to the detection and progression of the Maize mosaic virus. The rudimentray image recongition software we produced for the round balls could be expanded to test libraries of infected and uninfected cells. It could then take a rough count of the infected cells and if images were fed to it as the virus progressed it could track the speed in which the virus spreads. 
# Methodology
	We will use a series of discrete approximation to acheive our goals for this project. The image in which we are testing needs to be reduced to its edges so we can compare it. The image will undergo the uncanny edge detection process. This involves preforming a guassian blur on the image, reducing the image down to it's edges by using determining the gradient vector for each pixe and changing their values to the magnitude of the vector. The lines are then thinned with a comparison of appropriate pixels. Finally noise supressions is done by eliminationg irrelivant pixels based on a threashold. The image is now just edges and will allow for easier evaluation of its contents. Based on the image we will then produce a library of perfectly round objects at varying locations based on the images dimensions. Each image is flattened and added to a matrix as a row, producing a matrix of the size of #images x image Size. We proceed by pro

